Unit 11 Two Truths & A Lie

1. Two of the following statements are true, and one is false. Identify the false statement and explain why it is false.
	a. An abstract class is one from which you cannot inherit, but from which you can create concrete objects. [CORRECT]
	b. Abstract classes usually have one or more empty abstract methods.	
	c. An abstract method has no body, curly braces, or statements.	

2. Identify the false statement and explain why it is false.
	a. Dynamic method binding refers to a program's ability to select the correct subclass method for a superclass reference while a program is running.	
	b. If Parent is a parent class and Child is its child, then you can assign a Parent object to a Child reference. [CORRECT]
	c. If Parent is a parent class and Child is its child, then you can assign a Child object to a Parent reference.

3. Identify the false statement and explain why it is false.
	a. You can assign subclass objects to an array that is their superclass type.	
	b. The following statement creates an array of 10 Table references:
		Table[] table = new Table[10];	
	c. You can assign a superclass reference to an array of its subclass type. [CORRECT]

4. Identify the false statement and explain why it is false.
	a. When you define a class, if you do not explicitly extend another class, your class is an extension of the Object class.	
	b. The Object class is defined in the java.lang package that is imported automatically every time you write a program.	
	c. The Object class toString() and equals() methods are abstract. [CORRECT]

5. Identify the false statement and explain why it is false.
	a. If object-oriented programs did not support inheritance, programs still could be written, but they would be harder to write.	
	b. When you create a new subclass in Java, you must remember to revise and recompile the superclass code. [CORRECT]
	c. When you create a useful, extendable superclass, you save development and testing time.

6. Identify the false statement and explain why it is false.
	a. Java's capability to inherit from more than one class is called multiple inheritance. [CORRECT]
	b. When a class inherits from another, the child class can use the nonprivate, nonoverridden members of its parent's class, but when a class uses an interface, it must implement its own version of each method.	
	c. All of the methods in an interface are implicitly public and abstract, and all of its data items (if any) are implicitly public, static, and final.

7. Identify the false statement and explain why it is false.
	a. If an anonymous inner class extends another class, the superclass must have a default constructor.	
	b. An anonymous inner class is defined inside another class.	
	c. You use the keyword extends when defining the class an anonymous inner class. [CORRECT]

8. Identify the false statement and explain why it is false.
	a. A class that will be placed in a package for others to use must be protected so that others cannot read your source code. [CORRECT]
	b. Java's creators have defined a package-naming convention in which you use your Internet domain name in reverse order.	
	c. Typically, you place .class files in a package so other programmers can import them into their programs.